Let us look at another example of modeling
a problem using Linear Programming, again
to do with production.
So, recall that a linear program is an optimization
problem, where you have some variables which
describe the quantities you want to compute.
And you now have linear constraints on these
variables, as well as a linear function describing
what it is that you want to optimize, maximize
or minimize, that is called the objective
function.
And one way to solve a linear program is to
think of it geometrically and use the simplex
algorithm and the simplex algorithm exploits
the fact that the optimum value of a linear
program is always at the vertex of the fusible
region. So, it starts at some vertex and it
keeps going from one vertex to a neighbor,
until it finds a vertex whose value is optimum
with respect to it is neighbors and the claim
is that vertex actually represents the solution.
We also said that we can justify that this
is the optimum value by constructing the dual,
which has how to combine the constraints together
to minimize the combination and the solution
which solves both the original and the dual
is actually an optimum value.
So, the next example we are going to look
at is the carpet manufacturing company. So,
we have a company which makes hand woven carpets
and we currently employee 30 employees, each
employee produces 20 carpets a month and his
pay 20,000 rupees a salary. So, if we just
look at the cost per carpet, then we are paying
the 1000 rupees to manufacture each carpet.
Now, it turns out that our monthly demand
is seasonal, so after looking at some task
data we are made an estimate of the amount
of carpets at we can expect to sell in each
month of the year. So, we have a range of
demand from 440 to 920, so remember that you
have 30 employees and 20 carpets each, I can
make 600 carpets in a given month, this is
what I can do with current stake. Now, some
times the demand is as low as 440.
So, if I make 600 carpets, now if I have 30
employees and each one is going to produce
20 carpets a month, I am going to get that
back. So, I am paying a percent to make carpets
it not set to ideal, so every employee will
produce 20 carpets a month. Therefore, I will
always produce 600 carpets, but I will have
160 pairs which I cannot sell that. But, there
are some months where I would have a demand
for 320 and now the question of whether I
have enough carpets to sell or not.
So, I know the demand from January to December
and say these are stored as d 1 for January,
d 2 for February and so on to d 12 for December.
So, I have these 12 quantities which are known
net marks, these are how many carpets I can
expect to sell and each of these marks.
So, now, I have to come up with this strategy
to cope with this varying demand, in order
to make sure that I lose the least amount
of money, because of this coping demand fluctuation.
So, one possibility is that whenever I have
extra demand I pay overtime, so if I pay over
time I get workers to work longer hours and
make more carpets. But, there are two costs
to this, the working wage per hour for overtime
is typically higher than the regular edge,
let us assume it is 80 percent extra.
So, if you remember originally we paid 1000
rupees per carpet as our labor cost, so if
I make it in overtime, it is going to cost
be instead rupees 1800 per carpet. Because,
it is going to take the same amount of time
and the person is going to be paid 80 percent
more. So, 80 percent of 1000 is 800, so it
is going to cost 1800 per carpet is the overtime
rate, in the other thing is that you cannot
of course, expect somebody to work 24 hours
a day.
So, there is a limit saying that a worker
cannot make more than 30 percent, cannot spend
more than 30 percent overtime. So, if they
make 20 per month normally, then at most they
can go plus 6, a single worker can make at
most now including overtime 26 per month.
The other option for me is to add or subtract
employees, I might want to add new workers,
in case I have a higher demand projected that
month or I might need to terminate some employees
in case my demand drops below 600.
But, these also comes with a cost, it goes
I have to do some paper work and also I have
to give some compensation and so on. So, let
us assume that there are some certain cost
3200 is the cost associate in hiring a worker
and 4000 rupees is the cost associated with
firing a worker. And finally, I can store
carpets when I’ve made excess and sell them
later when I have a demand, but storage also
costs something. So, let us assume that storing
a carpet cost rupees 80 per month.
Because, I have to keep it carefully avoid
damage from moisture and so on, these are
the various options I can pay overtime. But,
up to a limit and it cost more for carpet
made by a person who repaid overtime. I can
either add or subtract from my work force,
but this also comes with the cost each time
I do it. And finally, I have a surplus storage
cost in case I want to keep my production,
hand it over from one month to the next.
So, we want to make a linear program out of
this, so we need some variables. So, we are
dealing with these 12 months January, February
to December. So, it is natural to think of
everything as happening within this scope
of one month. So, for month i where i ranges
from 1 to 12, let us assume that we have Wi
workers, initially we have 30 workers. Then,
from this 30 we will either hire or fire some
to get the workers in the empty, then if hire
or fire some to get February and so on.
So, each month potentially we have more or
less workers, but we start with 30, now these
30 workers will make some number of carpets.
So, let us assume that the total number of
carpets made in a month is X i and O i which
is included in X i in terms of the total.
But, O i is specifically the number of carpets
which are made in overtime, because for these
there is an extra cost, this is over and above
salary we already pay the worker.
And finally, we said that we have this hiring
and firing cost, so let h i be the number
of workers hired at the beginning of a month
and f i be the number of workers fired at
the beginning of a month. And let S i stands
for the number of surplus carpets that I have
in stock at the end of month i. So, I initially
assume that I have an empty warehouse, so
s 0 as 0, but s 1 with say at the end of January
how many carpets am I storing, s 2 with say
at the end of February how many carpets am
I storing and so on.
So, there are 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 quantities,
each of these quantities is there for 12 months.
So, as 72 variables plus I have these default
initial variables for w0 or s0, so I have,
74 variables. So, this is a lot of things
that I have estimate, but it turns out that
actually in a linear program this is not a
large number, it can be solved quite efficiently
by any of the standard things including simplex.
So, let us now thing of the constraints, so
the first constraint to the usual one, which
is their every quantity that we are talking
about is strictly greater than equal to 0.
The second constraints talks about, how the
number of carpets made break up into the regular
production plus the overtime. So, if I make
i carpets in a month, then each worker, remember
W i is the number of workers in my establishment
in month i, will make 20. So, 20 time W i
what workers in month i produce within the
normal time and in addition to that O i is
just the number of carpets made.
So, O i is not the number of hours overtime,
so O i is the number of carpets. So, each
month I make 20 times number of workers plus
O i, now if I start if I had W i minus 1 workers
last month and I hired a few and fired a few,
then the total number I have now is the old
number plus the number I’ve hired plus minus
the number I’ve fired. So, this is the constraint
on how each of the W i is connected to the
previous W i.
Similarly, the stock is connected to how much
I had before I started this month, how much
I made this month and how much I sold. So,
remember that d 1 to d 12 was the demand,
so this is a fixed quantity, either not variables
these are known values. So, in this month
I would have sold di, but I produce X i. So,
X i minus d i is the exits that I produce
this month are the deficit as the case may
be I started with the surplus Si minus 1.
So, if I add this month's surplus are defied
I get the total surplus at the end of the
month. Remember, I cannot have negative carpets,
Si all those things must always be bigger
than equal to 0. And finally, as we said before
a worker to produces 20 carpets in regular
month, if I add now the fact that you can
do 30 percent overtime, this is 20 plus 6.
So, the number of carpets made in overtime
can be at most 6 per worker. So, O i should
be less than or equal to 6 times W i, so these
are all constraints now.
So, now given these constraints what we want
to do is minimize the total amount of cost
that we are going to put up. So, first this
is the regular salary cost, the regular salary
cost is 20,000 per worker and we have W 1
workers in month 1, W 2 in month 2 and W 2
in month 12. So, we add of the total number
of workers, each of them is paid 20,000 rupees.
So, this is the total salary before the year,
then depending on how many people we hire
in each month, for each hire we pay 3000,
so this is our hiring bill.
Similarly, for each person that we business
we have to pay 4000 first that. So, this is
are firing bill, then the number of wrong
carpet that have been keep in storage in each
month in case 80 rupees per carpet cost. So,
have to multiply the total storage by 80 and
finally, when I pay overtime and paying our
number the salary. So, each carpet made in
overtime, remember cost 1800 rupees as suppose
to 1000 rupees which is already accounted
for in salary, so this is my overtime cost.
So, this says that we can take this fairly
complicated looking question about production
with the demand and hiring and inspiring and
productivity and all that and set it out with
some 72 plus 274 variables and a complex cost
function and feed it to simplex and get an
answer.
So, we run simplex and we find a solution,
so are we done? so it turns out that we might
get an answer which is not something that
we can actually used. For instance, we might
get an answer which says h 3 is equal to 10.6.
So, this says that, we must hire a fractional
number of people in a month. Now, obviously,
we cannot do this at the same time we have
not any of our constraints express that the
values must be integers.
So, what can be do about this, well we can
take this 10.6 and we can look for the nearest
integer 10 or a 11 and reevaluate what happens
to the cost, if we make it even integer. So,
this is called integer rounding, now if the
values are big now they’re like 10, 11 the
two digit value say, then rounding is relatively
small displacement and the quality of the
optimum will not change must based on it is.
But, if the numbers are small, if I am rounding
between say I am going to take it from 0.5
to 1 or 0 of 1.5 to 2 or 1 then the effect
of the rounding is quite can be quite task.
So, this is the general problem with linear
programming which is linear programming cannot
guarantee that you have the integer solutions,
when you want an integer solution you can
use rounding to achieve an integer solution,
but you have to be careful that the rounding
actually gives you one optimum. Now, why not
just insist that you want an integer solution.
So, can you not set up this same problem and
solve it, but require the solutions to be
integers, unfortunately this terms out to
be quite a hard problem.
So, we have found, we have claimed rather,
that when we set up general linear programming
problem, we can solve them efficiently. So,
simplex is not an efficient solution, but
an effective solution, but there are interior
point methods and other polynomial time algorithms
for linear programming. But, if you change
the rules of the game and say I do not want
to arbitrary solution; that means, constraints,
but I want to one we are all the values that
I get an integers, then we have the, so called
integer linear programming.
And integer linear programming unfortunately
is not solvable efficiently or it is not known
solvable efficiently. So, the best we can
hope to do for integer linear programming
is to actually try and turn it into an arbitrary
linear program and somehow interpret the answers
as integers by doing appropriate rounding.